Open Access. - The agreement directs OSTP to produce an in-depth financial analysis of
the August 25, 2022, Memorandum to Executive Departments and Agencies titled, "Ensuring Free,
Immediate, and Equitable Access to Federally Funded Research" including the policy's anticipated
impact on Federal research investments, research integrity, and the peer review process, as was
previously directed in House Report 117-395, no later than 100 days after the enactment of this
act. If OSTP fails to provide the Committees with the report within 100 days, then OSTP must
pause implementation of the memorandum until the agency produces the report

from https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20240304/FY24%20CJS%20Conference%20JES%20scan%203.3.24.pdf

What if most journals flip to gold OA in next 7-10 years

---------
What would you need? How would you do it?
Need to predict USFF-acknowledged article counts into the future, then break down overall prediction by journal titles
Run USFF projections forward at the journal level (500 journals? 1000?)

Once you have it by journal, take that uncertainty in number of articles and assume 100% APC
Apply journal-specific APC to each journal level projection, multiply each distribution by APC and get a cost estimate
Sum them up - this is a worst case number if everything is published 100% APC. 
$1B / year or some such. Will be a headline attention number. Can use that to argue that APCs need to be lower

NEXT start to layer in Green OA repository usage, Platinum/Diamond, S2O, other non-author pays routes.
At each level of non-APC uptake (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7%) randomly remove that number of articles from the above distributions (randomly selected journals) and replace with Green "cost" (very little) or no cost (Diamond, S2O)
At each non-APC uptake percentage (1, 2, 3, etc), re-run many times (10,000?) and get a distribution of adjusted cost. Different articles will get converted from APC to Green/Diamond each time, and which journal it's in matters A LOT

Who's paying this? Will depend on Corresponding Author % rates for universities in the R1, R2, HBCU, etc buckets .... another study idea I had
Simulate "who" is the corresponding author
Break down by university type - HBCU, EPSCoR, R1, R2, etc.
ECR is harder. Maybe impossible


Even if journals flip to gold OA (everything in the journal is OA) or hybrid (piece by piece), we still have green OA repository route at disposal. arXiv, bioRxiv, engRxiv, socRxiv, University DRs, etc. Those don't cost much. 

Cap the amount of USFF money that is allowed to pay an APC? I can't fly first class with federal dollars. Say I can only use $1000 on APCs, rest have to come from somewhere else. Researcher knows best where to publish their article. Don't want to restrict author choice. But can't spend $10,000 of federal money on a Nature APC.


Clearly to avoid $1B in federal grant funds going to academic publishers each year, more emphasis is needed on alternative froms of access not-APC based - platinum, diamond, green OA. Even transformative agreements, while inequitable, shift the payment of APC away from USFF grantees and onto their instutitons and libraries.


--- 3/19/24 ----
thinking more about finding CA% by university type [R1, R2, HBCU, etc]
would be like globe tossing binomial y/n    p^y * (1-p)^n   for some randomly sampled number of trials
but then should propogate that uncertainty forward 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qD7yqFjgJeI&list=PLDcUM9US4XdMdZOhJWJJD4mDBMnbTWw_z&index=21 at 16:00 
predicting with averages

Look at CA% rates not as binomial but actually crunch every. single. article.
Is the institution listed in CA in the list of [R1, R2, HBCU, etc]?
If yes, 1 in R1 column. If no, move to next one
Should be able to actually test each line. Will take time but better than estimate and posterior of percentage


R1 institutions offer approximately three times the number of services offered by R2s, and more than nine times the number offered by liberal arts colleges.
https://sr.ithaka.org/publications/the-research-data-services-landscape-at-us-and-canadian-higher-education-institutions/


2023
House Report 117-395 - https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CRPT-117hrpt395/html/CRPT-117hrpt395.htm

Federally Funded Scientific Research.--The Committee 
recognizes the considerable progress made by OSTP in bringing 
to completion the department and agency public access plans 
called for by the OSTP Memorandum ``Increasing Access to the 
Results of Federally Funded Scientific Research,'' issued 
February 22, 2013. The Committee understands that 22 
departments and agencies with annual expenditures on research 
and development of $100,000,000 or more now have completed 
their public access plans for increasing access to peer-
reviewed scholarly publications and digital data resulting from 
Federally funded research. The Committee encourages OSTP to 
continue its efforts to coordinate the implementation of public 
access policies across Federal departments and agencies and to 
identify additional opportunities to enhance access to the 
results of Federally funded research. The Committee received 
OSTP's quarterly progress reports regarding department and 
agency public access planning efforts, the most recent report 
being issued on January 9, 2017. Further, OSTP shall report to 
the Committee on an annual basis on the progress of departments 
and agencies in implementing their public access plans, 
including relevant measures of progress, and regarding 
additional steps being taken to improve access to the results 
of Federally funded research. In addition, at least 90 days 
prior to making any changes to the Federal Government's public 
access policies as outlined in the 2013 OSTP memorandum on 
``Increasing Access to the Results of Federally Funded 
Scientific Research'', the Committee directs OSTP to submit to 
the Committee a report on the costs and budgetary impact of 
such changes. The report shall include a complete analysis of 
any newly-created costs, including any potential new costs for 
grant recipients.
    Open Access Publishing of Scientific Research.--The 
Committee is concerned that financing mechanisms for open 
access publishing of scientific research, in particular article 
processing charges and transformative agreements, may present 
growing barriers to knowledge generation and sharing. Article 
processing charges paid by authors and their institutions may 
create particularly significant burdens for early-career 
researchers and those from traditionally underrepresented 
communities. To inform further development of open access 
policies among Federal research agencies, OSTP is directed to 
deliver a report to the Committee, no later than 270 days after 
the enactment of this Act, on article processing charges and 
transformative agreement costs borne by Federal research 
grantees during fiscal years 2016 through 2021 and how these 
financing models affect who can publish. This report shall 
analyze the effects of open access financing mechanisms, 
including article processing charges and transformative 
agreements on costs paid as part of Federal research grants, as 
possible given limited data on the subject. The report should 
also assess how these open access financing mechanisms may 
affect the volume of research publications authored by 
scientists who are early career or are from smaller, lesser-
funded, and historically underrepresented institutions, 
including Historically Black Colleges and Universities; 
Hispanic-Serving Institutions, EPSCoR, and other Minority-
Serving institutions; where researchers choose to publish; and 
potential variability in effects across different research 
disciplines including, but not limited to, the life sciences, 
physical sciences, social sciences, humanities, mathematics, 
and engineering. As part of this report, OSTP shall also 
include a discussion of how more data might be collected to 
inform understanding of the impacts of these charges and the 
feasibility of such data collection.